# SynopticProject
Synoptic Project for Second Year

The towns of Lobitos and Piedritas are fuelled by the fishing industry – approximately half of all residents in Lobitos contribute to the fishing industry  – but it is currently facing a number of challenges. One of these challenges includes the constraints placed on the fishermen in this region. Fishermen work with people called ‘intermediaries’, who promise to buy the fish that the fishermen catch; they provide the fishermen with fuel and bait to be able to complete these deals. However, sometimes these relationships become exploitative and the fishermen are left with almost nothing to show from these deals, despite their hard work. The intermediaries pay approximately S/4-5 per kilo of fish and then go on to sell it to markets for around S/15-16 per kilo, making a significant profit from the labour of these fishermen. In Lobitos, 30% of the local population lives below the poverty line, with 14% living in extreme poverty. In Piedritas, between 70-80% of residents live in moderate to extreme poverty.  Thus, it is clear to see that there is a power imbalance in the relationships between fishermen and intermediaries. The vision for our application, MyFishingPal, is to allow the fishermen of Lobitos and Piedritas to take a portion of the control in these relationships and to minimise the power imbalance between them and their intermediaries, so that the people of these towns may have an improved quality of life.

MyFishingPal aims to help the fishermen of Lobitos and Piedritas take more control of their work by providing a central point to find jobs provided by intermediaries. Intermediaries will be able to create and post a job, dictating certain things like how much fish they want, when they want it by, and how much they will pay for it. Fishermen will then be able to browse the list of jobs posted and select which ones they can do. Once a job has been selected by a fisherman, it will be taken off the list of available jobs and can be found in the fisherman’s ‘Ongoing Jobs’ section. Details of the job can be sent to the fisherman via SMS as the fishing community typically uses feature phones. The motivation behind this application is improving the quality of life for the fishermen in Lobitos and Piedritas since they make up such a significant part of their populations. MyFishingPal will force intermediaries into competition with each other, which will naturally lead to a gradual raise in the rates they offer, and will provide the fishers with more agency as they will not have to be tied to a single intermediary and can choose jobs more freely; this also means fishermen will be able to sell outside of their intermediary relationships to local businesses and tourists, as previously they would be punished for this. In this way, MyFishingPal aims to improve fishermen’s lives both economically and socially.
